# HyperFind

HyperFind is a GUI client application for performing interactive searches on non-indexed data in the [OpenDiamond](http://diamond.cs.cmu.edu/) and Delphi systems. It is primarily designed to search images but can also be used for other data types.

## Compile from Source

Clone and compile:
```bash
# Create directory used by hyperfind
mkdir -p $HOME/.diamond

git clone https://github.com/cmusatyalab/hyperfind.git
cd hyperfind
```

To run a search against OpenDiamond:
```bash
./gradlew runDiamond
```

To run a search against Delphi:
```bash
./gradlew run
```


## Other Artifacts for Running HyperFind

### ScopeCookie

`$HOME/.diamond/NEWSCOPE`: a [ScopeCookie](https://github.com/cmusatyalab/opendiamond/wiki/ScopeCookie) typically 
generated by a scope server or by the `cookiecutter` script from [OpenDiamond](http://diamond.cs.cmu.edu/). It contains information about the dataset to be searched and the backend servers.

### Codecs, Predicates and Filters

HyperFind looks for these in the following directories:

+ `/usr/share/diamond/{codecs,predicates,filters}`
+ `/usr/local/share/diamond/{codecs,predicates,filters}`
+ `$HOME/.diamond/{codecs,predicates,filters}`

Typically, codecs/predicates/filters come in a bundle developed separately.

*For definitions of codec, predicate and filter, see https://github.com/cmusatyalab/opendiamond/wiki/StructureOfDiamond.*


## Tips

### Viewing ScopeCookie
[Recommended] If you have OpenDiamond installed locally:
```bash
python -m opendiamond.scope $HOME/.diamond/NEWSCOPE
```

The ScopeCookie is a base64-encoded string containing the authorized search servers, data sources and expiration time.

Alternative:
```bash
cat $HOME/.diamond/NEWSCOPE | grep -v \- | base64 -d
```

### Auto placing ScopeCookie (Linux Only)
Installing OpenDiamond on your computer will also install a system hook that automatically renames and places
the ScopeCookie properly when you double-click the downloaded file from the browser.

### Obtaining filters
The common type of downloadable filters (short for saying codecs/predicates/filters) is
a tar ball containing the directories `codecs/`, `predicates/` and `filters/`.
Decompress the tar ball and place files under `$HOME/.diamond/` as mentioned above.

### Running HyperFind remotely with X11 forwarding
It has been successful to run HyperFind in a Linux host and forward the GUI to Windows/MacOS.
To do so, you should enable X11 forwarding in your SSH connection and install a X11 server on your OS
(e.g., Xming on Windows, Xquartz on MacOS).

### Hyperfind Configuration Settings
The OpenDiamond and Delphi connectors expose different configuration settings and connector-specific commands that can
be accessed by clicking the `Config` button in the UI. These configuration settings are persisted locally to
$HOME/.diamond/hyperfind-diamond.properties for the OpenDiamond connector and $HOME/.diamond/hyperfind-delphi.yml for
the Delphi connection.

### Depending on a local build of OpenDiamond-Java (or Delphi)

Option 1: Use Local Maven

- Publish your local copy to by running `./gradlew publishToMavenLocal` in the opendiamond-java repo
- Uncomment the `mavenLocal()` line in build.gradle in this repository
- Update the version of `edu.cmu.cs.diamond.opendiamond:opendiamond-java` dependency in the build.gradle file in this repository to that of your local copy

Option 2: Directly use build directory

- Build your local copy to by running `./gradlew build` in the opendiamond-java repo
- Uncomment the last two lines in the dependency block in hyperfind's build.gradle
